
link: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9kPiq8-i-0M&list=PLC3y8-rFHvwirqe1KHFCHJ0RqNuN61SJd&index=5

Automated test is code that throws an error when the actual output is not equal to expected output

Tech:  React + Typescript

Test Tech: Jest and React Testing library


Manual Testing

    An individual will open the website, interact with the website and ensure everything
    works as intended.

    If a new feature is released, you repeat the same steps

    You may have to test not only the new feature but also the existing features

    Drawbacks:
        1. Time Consuming
        2. Complex repetitive tasks has a risk of human error
        3. If its tight dead line, you may not get a chance to test all the features
    
    For avoiding these mistakes Automated testing came


Automated Testing
    Automated tests are programs that automate the task of testing your software 
    Write code to test the software code
    Additional effort required when you develop a feature

    Pros:
        1. Not time Consuming
        2. Reliable, consitent and not error prone
        3. Easy to identify and fix features that break tests




Jest Vs React Testing library

Jest:
    Jest is javascript testing framework

    Jest is a test runner that finds tests, runs the tests, determines whether the tests
    passed or failed and reports it back in a human readable manner

RTL: 
    Javascript testing utility that provides virtual DOM for testing React components

    React Testing library provides a virtual DOM which we can use to interact with and
    and verify the behaviour of react component

    Testing library is infact a family of packages which helps test UI components

    The core library is called DOM Testing library and RTL is simply wrapper around this
    core library to test React applications in an easier way



Types of Tests
    1.Unit tests
    2.Integration tests
    3.E2E tests

    Unit tests
        Focus is on testing the individual building blocks of an application such as a class
        or a function or a component

        Each unit or building block is tested in isolation, independent of other units
    
    Integration tests
        Focus is on testing a combination of units and ensuring they work together.
        Take longer than unit tests
    
    E2E tests   
        Focus is on testing the entire application flow and ensuring it works as
        designed from start to finish
        Involves in real UI, a real backend database, real services etc
        Take the longest as they cover the most amount of code
        Have a cost implication as you interact with real APIs that may charge based on the
        number of requests.


RTL philosophy

    The more your tests resemble the way your software is used, the more confidence they
    can give you.
    Tests we are going to learn to write in this series strike a balance between unit tests in
    the sense they are at a component level and easy to write and maintain and E2E tests in
    the sense they resemble the way a user would interact with the component.
    With React Testing library, we are not concerned about the implementation details of about
    component.
    Instead we are testing how the component behaves when a user interacts with it.
    RTL will not care if you add 4+4 or 5+3 to display the number 8
    Refactoring will not affect your test as long as the end result is the same.    

    Types of tests and RTL
        1. Unit tests
        2. Integration tests
        3. E2E tests
        4. RTL strikes a balance between unit and E2E tests which is what we will be 
            learning in the rest of the series




    

creat a ts react project:
    npx create-react-app . --template typescript

To run Tests
    npm test

Anatomy of Test
    In test method
    test(name, fn, timeout)

    The first argument is the test name used to identify the test

    The second argument is a function that contains the expectations to test

    The third argument is timeout which is an optional argument for specifying how
    long to wait before aborting the test. The dafult timeout value is 5 seconds

    overview:
        Ex: App.test.tsx
        1. Every test begins with test method from Jest, first arg is name
        2. The second argument is a function that contains the expectations to test
            1. we use render method from RTL to create a virtual DOM 
            2. Using screen method from RTL getting the asserted value
            3. Using the expect method from jest and matcher function(toBeInTheDocument)
                asserting the values


For simple ex test: Greet.tsx and Greet.test.tsx


Test Driven Development (TDD) 
    Test driven development is a software development process where you write tests
    before writing the software code

    Once the tests have been written, you then write the code to ensure the test pass

    1.  Create tests that verify the functionality of specific feature
    2. Write software code that will run the tests successfully when re-executed
    3. Refactor the code for optimization while ensuring the tests continue to pass

    Also called red-green testing as all tests go from a red failed to a green passed state.



Jest watch mode
    Watch mode is an option that we can pass to jest asking to watch files that have 
    changed since the last commit and execute tests related only to those changed
    files.
    An optimization designed to make your tests run fast regardless of how many tests
    you have


Filtering tests
    We can filter the tests and can run or skip those tests

    1. run the tests "npm test" and press "w" enter
        1. Press p to filter by a filename regex pattern.
        2. Press t to filter by a test name regex pattern.

    2. In test method we can add "only" for run those tests
       and "skip" for skipping that test
        EX:  test.only()
        EX:  test.skip()


Grouping Tests
    describe global method helps to Grouping tests

    describe(name, fn)

    The first argument is the group name
    The second argument is a function that contains the expectations to test

    In describe we can use only and skip methods too

    can create a multiple nested describe also

    Note: One test file is one Test suite


Filename Conventions:
    Files with .test.js or .test.tsx suffix
    Files with .spec.js or .spec.tsx suffix
    Files with .js or .tsx suffix in __tests__ folders

    Recommendation is to always put your tests next to the code they are testing
    so that relative imports are shorter.


Important Note:
    we can use different methods for same uses

    Methods

    test()          =>      it()
    test.only()     =>      fit()
    test.skip()     =>      xit()
    

Code Coverage:
    A metric that can help you understand how much of your software code is tested

        Statement coverage: how many of the statements in the software code have
        been executed
        Branches coverage: how many of the branches of the control structures(if
        statements for instance) have been executed
        Function coverage: how many of the functions defined have been called and
        finally
        Line coverage: how many of lines of sourcce code have been tested

    
    In package.json file add a new command
        "coverage" : "yarn test --coverage --watchAll"
    
    Command to Run the test coverage 
        yarn coverage
    
    Then add the collect coverage from, for that in the coverage command
        "coverage" : "yarn test --coverage --watchAll --collectCoverageFrom='src/components/**/*.{ts,tsx}'"
    
    For ignoring the types or other files in the above command modify like this
        "coverage": "yarn test --coverage --watchAll --collectCoverageFrom='src/components/**/*.{ts,tsx}' --collectCoverageFrom='!src/components/**/*.{types,stories,constants,test,spec}.{ts,tsx}'"


    Configuration for jest coverageThreshold:
    The coverageThreshold configuration in Jest enforces minimum coverage levels.

        "jest": {
            "coverageThreshold": {
                "global": {
                    "branches": 80,
                    "functions": 80,
                    "lines": 80,
                    "statements": -10 
                }
            }
        }
    
    1. Branches
    Definition: Branch coverage measures how many of the possible paths or branches within your code have been executed by your tests.

    2. Functions
    Definition: Function coverage measures how many of your functions have been called during testing.

    3. Lines
    Definition: Line coverage measures how many of the lines of code have been executed by your tests.

    4. Statements
    Definition: Statement coverage is similar to line coverage but considers each individual statement within a line of code.

    We can see the coverage report HTML file 
        coverage > lcov-report > index.html



Assertions:
    When writing tests, we often need to check that values meet certain conditions

    Assertions decide if a test passes or fails

    With Jest assertions are carried out by expect method globally


Matchers:
    link:   https://jestjs.io/docs/using-matchers





    


